---
title: I miss working on Millefeuille
date: 2026/06/18
description: Thoughts on what's going on now. This description is probably wrong because it's based on a feeling but I'm not re-writing it.
tags: [millefeuille]
category: thoughts
---

Every once in a while, I feel the urge to stop doing whatever it is I'm doing so that I can sit down and work on Millefeuille.

## What is Millefeuille?

Millefeuille is a personal finance manager that I've been building for years and was something that I hoped would propel me to start up success. But it is non-paying work and so it has taken a backset compared to things that pay the rent. I have assembled various prototypes over the years -- some spreadsheets, a bunch of SQL scripts and Postgres DBs, various code mock-ups.

I even bought a [domain](https://millefeuille.app)! Several domains actually.

The underlying theme is that I build a prototype/feature/script that satisfies a current need, then I stop until the next need/urge re-appears

## What am I focusing on now?

The current top priority is getting my [CPTA license](/cpta), followed by a bunch of things that I shall simply categorise under Life™.

I need to stop here because this article is going off track.

## I miss working on Millefeuille

There are so many features I would like to implement.

I wish the UI looked prettier, it's pretty un-designed right now.

Maybe what I miss is working on software projects, but that's not a topic I'm willing to get into now.

I'm pretty busy now because the exams are on the 4th August. Once that's over, maybe I'll spend the rest of August working on Millefeuille as a way to relax.
